Aim: To print Hello World and design a Calculator to perform basic operation on two user input number. Appratus: GNU g++ compiler for local and code editor or Online C++ Compiler THEORY: The program can use cin and cout for input/output because it starts with #include. The compiler cannot process cin or cout without this #include statement. We can directly reference cin and cout in our code by using namespace std;. Int main() is where the program starts running. The std::cout statement < "Welcome to C++ Programming!" < std::endl; outputs the greeting. Similarly, cout << "Hello World" << std::endl; prints "Hello World." A variable of type int is declared after the greetings, followed by cout << "Enter a number: "; and cin >> a;. This line requests input from the user and then saves the result in the variable that was previously declared. Following the storage of a, we run cout < "You entered: " << a << std::endl; and finally we end our program with return 0; which indicates to the operating system that the program completed successfully.

About iostream and std: The main purpose of iostream is to give the programmer a basic method of input/output using cin and cout. The identifiers cin and cout reside in a namespace called std. The programmer has two options to use them: Using std:: in front of the identifiers (for example, std::cout) or using using namespace std; which removes the requirement to prefix std::.

About Calculator: Our calculator prompts the user for two float numbers. We declared five float variables (two for user input and three for the result of the arithmetic operations). The variables we created are; n , m for user input and sum, sub, mul, and div for storing the result of our arithmetic commands. The calculator does the following calculations: sum = m + n; sub = n-m; mul = n * m; div = n / m;

The program then prints each of the calculations in the format of "Sum:" followed by std::endl to print the result of the calculation on a new line. We conclude with return 0; which indicates successful execution of our program.

Algorithm: Start Display a welcome message: "Hello, World!" Declare variables: n, m: to store the input numbers (float) sum, sub, div, mul: to store the results of arithmetic operations Prompt the user to enter the first number Read and store the value in variable n Prompt the user to enter the second number Read and store the value in variable m Compute the results Display the results of all operations: END Conclusion: This Program will help in understaing of basic input and output, diffrent arithmetic operation in C++ and will give short idea on how we can built programs in C++.
